# Tech tools

Luckysheet, an open-source spreadsheet
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/23994619

Show HN: React SpreadSheet – Google Sheets-like performance
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/23930268

Show HN: I built a cron job scheduler
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/23337081

High Availability Load Balancers with Maglev
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/23485579

Online Text to Diagram Tools
https://hn.premii.com/#/article/23483922

Online Text to Diagram Tools
https://hn.premii.com/#/article/23483922

Show HN: Assembled – Scale great customer support
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22547102

Firecracker: Secure and fast microVMs for serverless computing
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22512196

Show HN: Run your GitHub Actions locally
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22439767

Show HN: Helium – Lighter web automation based on Selenium
https://hn.premii.com/#/article/22416258

Show HN: Kasaya – A scripting language and runtime for browser automation
https://hn.premii.com/#/article/22374991

Show HN: CLI Using Chaos Engine on K8s to Validate Autonomous Monitoring Tool
https://hn.premii.com/#/article/22558783

Backstage: an open platform for building developer portals
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22593568

Show HN: WorkOS – APIs for enterprise features like SSO/SAML
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22607402

Show HN: Screen – screen sharing for remote work, by the cofounder of Screenhero
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22676040

Show HN: Dropbase 2.0 – Turn offline files into live databases
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/24189582

Show HN: Create diagrams stitching images on a grid using HCL (like Terraform)
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/24097681

Show HN: Starboard – Fully in-browser literate notebooks like Jupyter Notebook
https://hn.premii.com/#/article/24029002

Show HN: Glitterly – Create and share videos of your app
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/24017261

Show HN: Record and playback interactive walkthroughs of your codebases
https://hn.premii.com/#/article/22518488

Show HN: Hyperdoc - We make code walkthrough guides (Moment.js)
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22415714

Show HN: Damnshort – dotcoms for startups and side projects
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22398147

Show HN: GitSpo – Monitoring and Analytics for Open-Source Projects
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22393286

Show HN: Get all the projects for sale data in one table
https://hn.premii.com/#/article/22375292

Show HN: Unscreen – Remove Video and GIF Backgrounds
https://hn.premii.com/#/comments/22495518